## Project Lifecycle: 
- Elements of embedded system
- System architecture and design choices (storage of programs and data, divide work between kernel device driver and applications, how to initialize the system)
- Writting embedded applications (how to make effective use of the linux process and threads model, and how to manage memory in a resource-constrained device) 
- Debugging and optimizing performance (how to trace, profile, debug your code in applicatios and kernel) 

## The four elements of embedded linux:
- toolchain (compiler and other tools to create code for your target device) 
- boatloader (initialize the boar, load and boot the linux kernel)
- kernel (managing system ressources and interfacing with hardware) 
- Root filesystem (libraries and programs running on the kernel) 

## Open source : free to obtain the source code and modify it.

## Hardware for embedded linux
- CPU (architecture supported by the kernel) (30 architectures), with MMU
- 16 mib ram and 8 mib for non-volatil storage
- debug port
- mean of loading software from scratch, SD cards, serialinterface (usb) 

## Learning about toolchain
### What is  a toolchain?
- a toolchain is a set of tools (compiler, linker and run-time libraries) that compiles source code into an executables that can run on your target device
a standard gnu toolchain consists of: 
- Binutils : binary utilities, including the assembler and the linker. 
- GNU Compiler Collection (GCC) : compilers for C,C++,JAVA.. 
- C library : the priciple interface to the operating system kernel from applications. 
### Types of toolchain 
- **Native :** This toolchain runs on the same type of system (desktop and servers) 
- **Cross :** This toolchain runs on different type of system, development on pc and testing on an embedded target. 

## CPU architectures
the capabilities of the target CPU includes : 
- **CPU architectiure** 
- **Big or little-endian operation :** Big-endian is organized from left to right where the most significant byte is sotred at the lowest memory adress.  
- **Floating point support :** the ability of a computer system to perform aritmetic operations on floating-point numbers.   
- **Application Binary Interface :** defines how functions, data structures, and system calls are accessed and represented in binary format.  

* The programming interface to the unix operating system is defined in the C language.  
application ---> C library ---> linux kernel 

## C libraries: 
- **glibc**
- **eglibc** 
- **µClibc**
- **musl libc**

## Finding a toolchain
- you may find a ready built toolchain that matches your need
- you can use the one generated by and embedded build tool 
- you can create one yourself 

### Crosstool-NG is a tool used for building custom cross-compiling toolchains. 
